{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1038\cocoasubrtf360
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{square\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01\uc0\u9642 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}}
{\info
{\author Peter Nyboer}
{\*\company Livid Instruments}
{\*\copyright 2012 Livid Instruments}}\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11800\viewh14500\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f0\b\fs24 \cf0 Tweaker Ableton Live Remote Scripts, rev 0.90
\b0 \
\

\b Summary
\b0 \
\
The Tweaker has two session views: the session for the Clips and the session for the Mixer. \
The Mixer controls two tracks worth of Volume, Device, solo/arm, Crossfader A/B assign. The large encoder is used for the Left/Right navigation of these two tracks.\
The Clips controls consist of a 7x3 Clip launch grid, 3 rows of Scene launch, Stop All Clips for tracks, and Clip Session navigation using the direction buttons or Session Shift. The colors of the Stop All Clips buttons also help indicate the assignments of the Mixer controls.\
The velocity sensitive drum pads are assigned to a Drum Rack, and can be transposed to access up to 64 drum pads.\
Finally, the master volume and pre-hear volume are assigned to the top potentiometers.\
\

\b Installation
\b0 \
\
Requires Ableton Live 8.22+\
\
The Tweaker remote control script for Ableton Live consists of two different folders, which need to be placed inside the MIDI Remote Scripts folder inside the Ableton Live Application bundle in order for correct operation.  They must be placed in the folder individually (i.e. they cannot be contained in the folder that they are distributed in).\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sa20\ql\qnatural
\ls1\ilvl0\cf0 {\listtext	\uc0\u9642 	}Macintosh \'96 Right click on the Live application icon and select "show package contents". Put the "Tweaker" and "TweakerNav" folders in Contents/App-Resources/MIDI Remote Scripts\
{\listtext	\uc0\u9642 	}Windows - put the "Tweaker" and "TweakerNav" folders in C:\\Program Files\\Ableton\\Live 8.x.x\\Resources\\MIDI Remote Scripts\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf0 \
To use the scripts with the Tweaker, select the "Tweaker" script in a slot of Ableton's Control Surface Preferences, and assign the MIDI input and output of the Tweaker to that slot.  While the complete functionality of the script is available simply by instantiating the "Tweaker" script, additional indication of Mixer navigation position can be gained by inserting the additional "TweakerNav" script in another empty Control Surface slot in Ableton's preferences.  This will enable a second "red box" for navigating inside Live's session pane.  It should be noted that this functionality is duplicated in the session view of the Tweaker control surface itself on the bottom bar of the grid.\
\

\b Navigation:
\b0 \
\
The Session Component includes the current selection in Live's session view.  It will allow firing and stopping of three clips on each track when visible. The Session view can be shifted by using the four directional buttons.  \
\
The Session is assignable to any of Live's tracks, as well as any available Return tracks.\
\
In order to quickly navigate the session grid more easily, the bottom right button can be pressed to "zoom out"  the session grid.  While shift is enabled, a new location can be selected in Live by pressing the grid directly, or the navigation buttons can be used to move the selected position.\
\
The assignment of the faders (and all controls vertically grouped with the Tweaker's fader) can be changed by using the large encoder on the top of the Tweaker.  It's position is hi-lighted on the bottom of the 4x8 grid;  Blue cells indicate regular Live tracks, while Red ones indicate Returns. By default, this navigation is bound to the 8-track wide box of the Clip's Session view. Press the large encoder to free the Track Session navigation to span the entire set. This is very useful for easily focusing the channel strips onto the Return tracks.\
\
In addition to navigation aid, the bottom row of buttons on the grid, when pressed, will stop all clips on their corresponding track.\
\
The far right buttons above the shift button allow scene launch capability for their corresponding scene in Live.\
\

\b Mixer Controls:
\b0 \
\
The two analog potentiometers at the top of the Tweaker control the Master and Prehear volumes.\
\
The crossfader will always be assigned to Live's crossfader.\
\
The two buttons above each fader allow enabling Solo and Arm for each track, while the button below it allow changing the crossfade assignment.  The crossfade assignment button will change colors to indicate whether it is assigned, and to which bus it is assigned to.\
\

\b Device Functionality (effects and EQ):
\b0 \
\
The first three parameters of a track's last selected device will automatically be assigned to the three push-button encoders when that track is selected using the track selection dial.  The encoders can be reassigned to other devices on that track by using the bottom two enccoder's push-buttons, and the device can be enabled or disabled using the top button.\
\

\b Drum Pads:
\b0 \
\
The drum pads are assigned notes starting with C-2 (note # 0), and can be routed into Live using its own routing capabilities.  In order for this functionality to work, it is essential that "Track Input" be enabled for the main Tweaker input port in Live's MIDI Preferences.  \
\
The drum pads will light when pressed or struck.\
\
The note assignment of the pads can be changed in increments of eight semitones (eight pads of a drum rack) by holding Session "shift" button (lower right) and pressing one of the drum pads.  The current note assignment interval is displayed on the drum pads while shift is held down.\
\
For a Live Drum Rack to respond to the Tweaker drum pads, the Drum Rack's host track must have its "MIDI From" menu set to receive MIDI from the Tweaker, and set to "All Channels" or "Channel 10." Finally, the track must be armed for recording so the MIDI input will trigger pads the Drum Rack. \
\

\b User Editing:
\b0 \
\
Most of the color and control assignments are editable in the TweakerMap.py file.  It is a simple matter to edit the file using a text editor to assign desired color schemes for the script to use.  It is necessary after editing and saving the file to re-load the Remote Script in Ableton's MIDI Preferences.\
}